So my name is Chris Conzelmann
and I am a fourth generation
duck farmer here at King Cole Ducks.
And we grow white Peking Ducks.
So our farming philosophy
is pretty simple.
We are fully integrated farm.
We do everything from hatchery
and incubation
all the way to processing and packaging.
So honestly, it's quality at every point,
every stage of that
But I mean, we were a farm to fork before
it was trendy.
So that's really for us,
it's about quality.
So so we grow a white Peking duck
that duck.
It's naturally a flightless bird
domesticated duck
that creates it's a mild flavor
that comes out of that.
Honestly,
that's really just the preferred.
What we found our market has really been
after four for seven for 70 years.
Right.
So again,
we have two different strains that we run.
One is a King cole strain,
which is about a 50/50 split between
breast and breast meat and fat cap,
as well as a Cherry Valley strain,
which runs about 75%
breast meat to fat cap.
And we just put either strain
into different markets that we have.
Fat is flavor.
I mean, through it, through it anywhere.
But for us, the fat cap is that fatty
or duck is typically used in the Chinese
Peking style cooking.
That's where you going
to get the really nice crispy skin
and you're going to
spend time rendering it out.
For us, a less fat cap is just more of a
I'm going to we're going to call it
an easy duck to cook.
But but again,
if if you ever have the choice
that fatty duck is 100%
our personal favorite.
Yeah, absolutely.
So our day starts by picking eggs by hand
we pick 12,000 eggs a day.
We've we've grown over the years
to that size.
From there,
the eggs get taken to a separate farm
where they're put in, they're gone
through a candling process.
They're washed and graded
and then they get set in incubators
for 28 days after the 28 days comes out.
We now have quacking ducklings
and they get placed back into a barn
and throughout that process they get,
they get set into
where they have feed lines, water lines,
much like what you can see right behind us
at that point
we also have a processing facility as well
where we do all of our breakdown of the
birds from whole ducks, breast, legs
And then in Mississauga,
we even have a cook plant, so we take it
one step further.
So every aspect
of every aspect of the duck.
So in Mississauga we do we have a cook,
we have Smokehouse, we've got Sous-vide,
we do a bunch of different
cooks through there.
And that's a federal facility as well.
Yeah.
So so it's a combination of a it's
a corn soy and wheat.
There's a bit of molasses mixed in there,
but it is done in a pellet form.
Yeah.
So again, that was something that,
that we, you know, it's,
it's, it's all about quality.
So we make sure that we go through
we've got a team of,
we've got a team full time on that
just make sure that their feed is
flies on the farm.
Right. Who would've thought.
But but yeah, honestly,
it's just about quality at that point.
But I absolutely love just a pan
seared breast done to that medium rare.
I find that it's like if I can,
if I can get anybody to try it, then there
they,
they almost swap from steak at that point.
Yeah, absolutely.
I mean again, I mean I have to touch back
on that four generations
of excellence that we've been pushing
all the way through.
You know, we, we it starts with it
starts with our waste philosophy
that we have next to no waste
when it comes to we we wash and dry
all of our feathers.
For example, as a waste product goes
into down duvets and things like that.
We have a recycling plant that creates
that takes 95% of our water
and puts it back into cycle
so we can do it for wash downs
and things like this.
We have a composting facility
which takes all of our litter
and duck manure and compost's it,
and we sell it into the market and
as soil blends.
So I mean, that's just one aspect of it.
There is virtually
no waste across the board
and when it comes down to a duck,
every part of the duck from tongue's
all the way to gizzards and feet.
And like I said, there is
there's, there's a spot for it.
So so we're very proud on that side.
And the other side
is that we work every single day
just to make sure that, again, quality,
quality, quality.
That's really what we're pushing
I'm Chris from King Cole Ducks.
And you've got to try the duck!